in the past few hours after that call
with President Biden Israel has said it
will temporarily allow Aid deliveries
through its northern border crossing
with Gaza currently a limited number of
a trucks pass through the raff for
Crossing with Egypt as well as Karam Abu
Salem also in the South where relief
agencies say Israel is impeding access
and stringent checks means not enough
Aid is getting in thez Crossing which
Israel says it will open up connects to
Northern Gaza that's the region facing
imminent famine additionally Israel says
it will open its Port City of ashdod to
receive Aid by sea for delivery to Gaza
RoR ches has more from occupied East
Jerusalem it's uh indicative really
isn't it of the uh influence the
leverage that the United States can
apply to Israel when it chooses uh to do
so because this decision from Netanyahu
came just hours after the phone call
with uh president Biden uh he then went
into a security cabinet meeting where
the decision uh was taken now the
statement that came after that security
cabinet meeting says that Israel will
allow the temporary delivery of
humanitarian Aid temporary I should note
through ashdod and the erors checkpoints
this increased Aid will prevent a
humanitarian crisis and is necessary to
ensuring the continuation of the
fighting and achieve the goals of of the
war so even now with all of this
this decision is Being Framed as a way
to complete Israel's war aims Ares is
the uh crossing that's at the north of
the Gaza Strip ashod is an Israeli Port
further north from that so Aid will come
into ashdod port and then be transported
across the Ares Crossing and into
Northern Gaza which was the first part
of Gaza that was devastated by Israel's
uh assault on on the Strip now how much
difference is makes well that's
completely in the hands of the Israelis
and how much Aid let they let through
any increase of course is going to be of
benefit uh to the starving people of
Gaza